hey this is pressure Locker can you
solve for X in the following equation
this problem was posed by Srinivasan
Ramanujan in the Journal of the Indian
mathematical Society over a hundred
years ago give this problem a try and
when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution you might try and
find an approximation in a calculator a
spreadsheet or computer program you'll
get that X is equal to about three in
fact X is equal to exactly three let's
see why three is equal to the square
root of nine nine equals one plus eight
and eight factors out into two times
four four can be expressed as the square
root of sixteen we now have a square
root inside of another square root we've
come to the first iteration of this
nested radical can we get to the next
stage well 16 equals one plus fifteen
and fifteen factors out into three times
five five can be re-written as the
square root of twenty-five and we've
come to the next iteration of the nested
radical 25 equals one plus 24 and 24
factors out into four times six six is
the square root of 36 and we've come to
the next stage in fact I claim this
pattern continues indefinitely
therefore we proved this infinite nested
radical is equal to the original term
which is three but how do we know the
pattern continues if you take a look at
the final square root we always have the
square root of a perfect square we want
to know can we get from this term to the
next term that is if we have the final
square root being a perfect square where
the coefficient is being x is two less
than the perfect square can we always
take that perfect square and increment
the perfect square and increment the
term that is being multiplied by this is
true algebraically we start out with our
original term and we expand out the
square
we can then rewrite this as for equaling
one plus three we now factor out n
squared plus 4n plus three into the
terms n plus 1 times n plus 3 and now we
write a radical where we have the square
root of n plus three squared and this
gets us to what we wanted to prove
so what any iteration we can always get
to the next stage and that shows this
pattern will continue did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch her on my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can get you in social
media a postal worker have you liked
this video please check out my books
there links in the video description